[Slide 1]
Contents:

Intro krill & krill oil nutrients
Superba Boost benefits & science for Skin

[Slide 2]
2
Krill are abundant small, shrimp-like crustaceans that live in the ocean and are rich in multiple key nutrients. 
Recognized by Charles Darwin in 1850 for its ecological importance and explored by NASA in the 1970s for its exceptional nutritional profile

FUN FACTS:
One of the largest marine biomasses
Lay 10,000 eggs at the time
Glow in the dark
Size of a paper clip
Swarms are visible from the moon

Sustainable precautionary fishery with low quotas
Science documents a stable and healthy biomass of krill
What are krill?
Abundant species with a Healthy Stable Biomass

[Slide 3]
Superba Krill: The Natural Combination of Key Cellular Nutrients in Optimal Form
PHOSPHOLIPIDS
Pure, Natural and Clean
CHOLINE
ASTAXANTHIN
OMEGA-3 EPA/DHA
The key advantage of krill oil is the phospholipids, which are the exact form the body needs to better absorb and deliver the omega-3 and choline benefits throughout the body.
Krill oil supplies omega-3 EPA/DHA, which is an important nutrient that 4 in 5 people don’t get enough of in their diet. It helps support many aspects of health including heart, brain, joint, immunity, women’s health, and sports performance.*
Krill oil contains choline, which is an essential nutrient that 9 in 10 people don’t get enough of in their diet. It helps regulate memory, mood, muscle control, and other important functions.*
Krill oil contains astaxanthin, which protects krill oil from oxidation, eliminating the need to add preservatives, additives.*
FISH CONSUMPTION STAT: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/products/databriefs/db321.htm 
CHOLINE CONSUMPTION STAT: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26886842/
Natural multi-nutrient
Providing the highest levels of essential nutrients

[Slide 4]
For nutrients like omega-3 and choline to actually be utilized and benefit the body, they must be absorbed, transported to cells and incorporated into the cell membranesSuperba Krill delivers these nutrients in a unique phospholipid form optimal for incorporation
CELL MEMBRANE
CELL
LIVER
JOINTS
SKIN
SPORTS
HEART
Omega-3 index

[Slide 5]
5
Unlocking the Science Behind Superba Boost for Skin HealthThe Power of Marine Phospholipids for Skin Hydration and Longevity

[Slide 6]
The Skin Barrier: Foundation for Hydration & Longevity
Why is the skin barrier important:
Locks in moisture – keeping skin hydrated and nourished.

Protects against environmental stressors and irritants.

Regulates & senses – Helps control temperature and detect sensations.
A healthy Skin Barrier depends on three key components:
Hyaluronic Acid – Acts like a sponge, binding water and keeping the skin plump.
Collagen – Provides structure and keeps skin firm and elastic.
Lipids (Phospholipids, Ceramides, Cholesterol, Fatty Acids) – Form a protective "glue" to maintain a strong skin barrier and prevent water loss.

[Slide 7]
Transepidermal Water Loss (TEWL): Why It Matters for Hydration and Aging
Healthy skin naturally loses a small amount of water every day — about 500 ml — but when the barrier is weakened, much more water is lost. 
The more TEWL you have, the drier, more irritated, and faster-aging your skin becomes.
TEWL measures how much water evaporates from your skin, affecting hydration, barrier function , and aging – a direct sign of how healthy and intact our skin barrier is.
Aging Weakens the Skin Barrier
And as we age, the problem worsens:
We lose hyaluronic acid, so the skin can't hold water as well.
We lose collagen, leading to less firmness and more wrinkles.
And we lose key lipids, making the skin barrier weaker and more prone to water loss.

This is why ingredients that protect the skin barrier are essential for maintaining healthy, youthful skin over time

[Slide 8]
Superba Boost’s Key Nutrients in Optimal Cell Form Support the Skin’s Hydration Barrier Function
Omega-3s EPA & DHA
Phospholipids
Choline
Astaxanthin
Essential for cell membranes
Support skin barrier function
Affect ceramide levels & composition
Modulate inflammation
Increase skin hydration 
Increase ceramide levels
Helps maintain the water content and volume of skin cells
Skin protective properties
Photoprotective, antioxidants and anti-inflammatory effects

[Slide 9]
Promotes 
Skin Hydration
Superba Boost –  A Superior Skin Health Solution that Naturally Hydrates from within
Superba Boost is a marine phospholipid complex with omega-3s, choline, and astaxanthin clinically shown to support the skin’s barrier function
Promotes 
Skin Elasticity
Reduces Water Loss
Increases OMI Improves Barrier Function
Boosts Collagen, Ceramides and Hyaluronic Acid Production
Human Clinical Studies
Pre Clinical Studies

[Slide 10]
Primary endpoint: Trans-epidermal water loss (TEWL)


Secondary endpoints: 
Skin hydration, elasticity, Omega-3 Index
In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial published last year in the Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology, 100 healthy volunteers were given either 1 or 2 grams of Superba Boost daily for 3 months.
Tewameter
