Journal of Human Kinetics volume 47/2014, 7-8   DOI: 10.1515/hukin-2015-0056   
7 
Dementi 
 
 
 
   
Authors submitted their contribution to the article to the editorial board. 
Accepted for printing in the Journal of Human Kinetics vol. 47/2015 in September 2015. 
 Effects of Supplementation with Neptune Krill Oil (Euphasia 
Superba) on Selected Redox Parameters and Pro- Inflammatory 
Markers in Athletes during Exhaustive Exercise 
by 
Anna Skarpańska-Stejnborn, Łucja Pilaczyńska-Szcześniak,  
Piotr Basta, Justyna Foriasz, Jarosław Arlet 
 
published in the 
Journal of Human Kinetics; 25, 49-57 
 
Response 
We appreciate Dr. Einar Lied’s comments 
regarding our article (Skarpańska–Stejnborn et al., 
2010). Indeed, we mistakenly used the trade name 
“Neptune Krill Oil” (Neptune Technologies & 
Bioresources) instead of “Krill Oil” manufactured 
by Enzymotec Ltd, India and supplied by Euro-
Pharma Alliance Sp. z o.o., Wrocław, as stated in 
the Material and Methods section. As Dr. E. Lied 
rightly concluded, misnaming the preparation, 
especially in the title of the paper, might be 
misleading for its readers. However, this was not  
 
 
our intention. We mistakenly used the name 
“Neptune Krill Oil” misinterpreting it as a proper 
name of the product, rather than as its tradename. 
As rightly pointed out by Dr. E. Lied, our 
study was the first one to analyze the application 
of krill oil as an attenuator of oxidative stress in 
athletes. The aim of our study was to verify if the 
administration of natural supplements with 
established antioxidant properties, such as krill 
oil, may attenuate the consequences of oxidative 
stress induced by exhaustive physical exercise. 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Composition of the supplement (Krill Oil) per 100 g of the product 
 
Ingredients  
Contents 
Phospholipids (g/100g) 
42 
DHA + EPA (g/100g)
DHA 
EPA 
28 
11 
17 
Omega 3 (g/100g) 
31 
Astaxanthin (g/100g) 
0.19 
Vitamin A (IU/g) 
142 
 
 

 
8 
© Editorial Committee of Journal of Human Kinetics 
 
Our 
analysis 
confirmed 
that 
the 
supplementation with krill oil resulted in a 
significant reduction of oxidative stress in rowers, 
as shown by a decrease in the post-exercise 
damage of erythrocyte lipids in the supplemented 
group and lack of this beneficial effect in the 
placebo group. Since both groups of the athletes 
were exposed to the same training loads and 
performed the same exercise tests, the difference 
in the levels of lipid peroxidation products could 
be 
interpreted 
solely 
as 
a 
result 
of 
the 
supplementation. 
Another vital issue is the content of active 
compounds within the supplement given to the 
athletes. As recommended, we enclose additional 
data on the contents of various components per 
100 g of krill oil supplemented to rowers 
participating in this study (Table 1). 
Another of Dr. E. Lied’s concerns was related to 
the lack of information on the sources of funding. 
Our research was supported solely from the 
statutory funds of our University. Typically, we 
had not disclosed information on this form of 
support in our previously published papers, 
listing the source of funding solely with regard to 
studies supported from external grants. 
We would like to mention that the 
aforementioned Dr. E. Lied’s comments on our 
published article have no influence on the results 
of our research; nevertheless, when considered 
they may add considerably to the quality of 
published data. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
