www.aging-us.com 
8661 
AGING 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Aging is a biological process characterized by 
progressive loss of viability and increasing frailty. As 
aging is the primary risk factor for many of the major 
diseases, it is generally accepted that slowing aging 
may reduce the incidence of age-related diseases [1]. 
There is mounting evidence that interfering with the 
conserved processes that induce aging can extend 
healthy lifespan [2]. However, many cellular 
processes contribute to aging. These processes are 
often referred to as “hallmarks of aging” and include 
genomic instability, epigenetic alterations, mito-
chondrial 
dysfunction, 
loss 
of 
proteostasis, 
senescence, telomere shortening, altered metabolism 
and cell-cell communication, as well as stem-cell 
exhaustion [3–5]. Anti-aging supplements should 
ideally attenuate most of these hallmarks to be 
effective. 
 
Marine oils have been extensively researched for health 
promoting 
properties. 
However, 
the 
underlying 
www.aging-us.com 
AGING 2022, Vol. 14, No. 21 
Research Paper 
Krill oil protects dopaminergic neurons from age-related 
degeneration through temporal transcriptome rewiring  
and suppression of several hallmarks of aging 
Tanima SenGupta1,2,4, Yohan Lefol1, Lisa Lirussi2, Veronica Suaste3,4, Torben Luders1, Swapnil 
Gupta2, Yahyah Aman1,2, Kulbhushan Sharma2, Evandro Fei Fang1,2, Hilde Nilsen1,2,3 
1Institute of Clinical Medicine, Department of Clinical Molecular Biology, University of Oslo, Oslo N-0318, Norway 
2Section of Clinical Molecular Biology, Akershus University Hospital, Nordbyhagen N-1474, Norway 
3Department of Microbiology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo N-0424, Norway 
4Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo, Oslo N-0318, Norway 
Correspondence to: Hilde Nilsen; email: hilde.nilsen@medisin.uio.no 
Keywords: krill oil, aging, healthspan, mitochondrial health, senescence 
Received: July 28, 2022 
Accepted: October 27, 2022 
Published: November 9, 2022 
Copyright: © 2022 SenGupta et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons 
Attribution License (CC BY 3.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited. 
ABSTRACT 
There is accumulating evidence that interfering with the basic aging mechanisms can enhance healthy
longevity. The interventional/therapeutic strategies targeting multiple aging hallmarks could be more effective
than targeting one hallmark. While health-promoting qualities of marine oils have been extensively studied, the
underlying molecular mechanisms are not fully understood. Lipid extracts from Antarctic krill are rich in long-
chain omega-3 fatty acids choline, and astaxanthin. Here, we used C. elegans and human cells to investigate
whether krill oil promotes healthy aging. In a C. elegans model of Parkinson´s disease, we show that krill oil
protects dopaminergic neurons from aging-related degeneration, decreases alpha-synuclein aggregation, and
improves dopamine-dependent behavior and cognition. Krill oil rewires distinct gene expression programs that
contribute to attenuating several aging hallmarks, including oxidative stress, proteotoxic stress, senescence,
genomic instability, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Mechanistically, krill oil increases neuronal resilience
through temporal transcriptome rewiring to promote anti-oxidative stress and anti-inflammation via
healthspan regulating transcription factors such as SNK-1. Moreover, krill oil promotes dopaminergic neuron
survival through regulation of synaptic transmission and neuronal functions via PBO-2 and RIM-1. Collectively,
krill oil rewires global gene expression programs and promotes healthy aging via abrogating multiple aging
hallmarks, suggesting directions for further pre-clinical and clinical explorations. 

www.aging-us.com 
8662 
AGING 
molecular 
mechanisms 
underlying 
the 
health-
promoting qualities of krill oil are not fully understood 
and a study that has evaluated the general potential of 
krill oil as a nutraceutical targeting the aging process is 
lacking. Extracts from the Antarctic krill species, 
Euphausia superba, have a high content of long-chain 
omega-3 fatty acids (including eicosapentaenoic acid 
(EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)). In krill oil, 
EPA/DHA are mainly bound to phospholipids in 
contrast to fish oil, where they are only bound to 
triacylglycerol. These fatty acids are important in the 
brain with diverse roles ranging from maintenance of 
brain structure and function and serve as essential 
building 
blocks 
of 
healthy 
cell 
membranes. 
Phospholipids improve tissue uptake and facilitate 
efficient brain delivery [6]. The potent antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory compound astaxanthin is a natural 
component of krill oil [7]. In a MPTP-induced 
Parkinson Disease (PD) mouse model, astaxanthin 
protected dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal 
circuit in young mice, but not in older animals [8]. Krill 
oil is also a dietary source of the essential nutrient 
choline [7] which is a component of the phospholipid 
phosphatidylcholine (PC) and a precursor of the 
neurotransmitter acetylcholine [9]. Thus, due to the 
combination of several compounds with neuro-
protective 
properties 
(choline, 
EPA/DHA 
and 
astaxanthin) [10, 11], exquisite bioavailability, krill oil 
may be a nutraceutical of choice to boost brain health 
[9]. In support of this, short-term supplementation 
experiments have shown that DHA/EPA has anti-
inflammatory and anti-oxidative properties with the 
potential to improve motor function and some cognitive 
properties [12]. 
 
The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) is 
regarded as a good model to study aging as most 
pathways affecting the aging processes are conserved 
between the nematode and humans [13]. C. elegans is a 
good model system to study the mechanisms of how the 
aging process leads to the development of age-related 
diseases. A specific formulation of krill oil was 
previously found to increase the lifespan in C. elegans, 
with the median lifespan increasing by about four days 
[14]. In this study, we used C. elegans to explore 
whether krill oil may also promote healthy aging. To 
evaluate the potential to attenuate age-related diseases 
we used PD as a model, because aging is the major risk 
factor for this neurodegenerative disease (NDD). We 
took advantage of transgenic strains expressing human 
α-synuclein (α-SYN) tagged with green fluorescent 
protein (GFP) in dopaminergic neurons and muscle 
[15–18]. 
These 
transgenic 
strains, 
facilitate 
visualization of age-related degeneration of dopami-
nergic neurons and aggregation of α-SYN - two cardinal 
pathologic features of PD. We found that krill oil 
counteracts the primary drivers of aging, such as 
mitochondrial dysfunction, senescence, and genomic 
instability in C. elegans and we validated the main 
findings in human fibroblasts. 
 
MATERIALS AND METHODS 
 
C. elegans strains and culture conditions 
 
Animals were cultured on nematode growth medium 
(NGM) plates with the Escherichia coli strain OP50 at 
20°C using standard procedure [19]. The adult animals 
were bleached to obtain synchronized populations. For 
all aging associated studies, L4 hermaphrodites were 
grown in NGM plates containing 0.5 µl/ml krill oil 
(provided by Aker BioMarine) from day 1 to day 6. The 
aging population of worms were maintained in NGM 
plates without FdUrd. Instead, animals were washed 
with M9 buffer and filtered through Nylon Net Filter 
(Millipore) everyday post adult day 2 stage, till the 
desired age. The adult day 1 was defined as 24 hours 
post L4 stage. The following nematode strains were 
used in this study: N2, wild type; BY273 Is[pdat-1GFP; 
pdat-1 α-syn] to monitor dopaminergic neurons. HLN107 
strain was built by crossing TU3401: sid-1 (pk3321) V; 
uls69 V with BY273 to perform RNAi in dopaminergic 
neurons. Punc-54 α-syn::GFP was used to investigate α-
synuclein aggregation. To study Alzheimer disease 
(AD) using C.elegans strain BR5270 [Prab-3::F3(delta) 
K280] and strain CK12 [aex‐3::tau4R1N(P301L) + 
myo‐2p::gfp] were used for Tau model; strain 
CL2355[Psnb-1::Aβ1–42] was used for Aβ model; strain 
UM0001[Psnb-1::Aβ1–42;Prab-3::F3(delta) K280] was used 
for Tau; Aβ model. In the following, the N2 and BY273 
strains will be referred as wild type (WT) and PD 
animals respectively. The strains BR5270, CK12, 
CL2355 and UM0001 will be referred to as AD 
animals. 
 
Cell lines 
 
The human fibroblastoid cell line BJ was grown in 
Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle Medium, GlutaMAX 
(DMEM, Life Technologies) supplemented with 10% 
(vol/vol) fetal bovine serum (FBS, Lonza) and 1× 
Penicillin-Streptomycin (Life Technologies). Cells were 
grown at 37°C with 5% CO2. 
 
RNA isolation and qPCR 
 
Total RNA was isolated with RNeasy mini kit 
(Qiagen) following the manufacturer’s instructions. 
Reverse transcription was performed using High-
Capacity cDNA Reverse Transcription kit (Applied 
Biosystems). Quantitative PCR was carried out on a 
QuantStudio 7 Flex detection system (Applied 

www.aging-us.com 
8663 
AGING 
Biosystems) with the Power SYBR green PCR master 
mix (Applied Biosystems). Each sample was analysed 
in triplicate. Primer sequences are provided in 
Supplementary Table 1. 
 
Chemicals and antibodies 
 
The senescence marker X-gal were purchased from 
Sigma (B4252-250MG. Serotonin hydrochloride was 
from Sigma. The following commercially available 
antibody was used: monoclonal 8-oxo-dG (4354-MC-
050 Trevigen). Secondary antibodies were Alexa Fluor 
555-conjugated anti-rabbit and anti-mouse (Invitrogen). 
For RNA isolation, Direct-zol RNA Miniprep Kits 
(#R2050) was used from Zymo-research. Senescence 
marker for fibroblasts, SPiDER-β-gal, was purchased 
from Dojindo (SG02-10). TMRE, (Mitochondrial 
membrane potential assay kit) was purchased from 
Abcam (ab113852). Cell nucleus staining dye Hoechst 
was purchased from Thermo Scientific (Hoechst 
33342). 
 
Degeneration of dopaminergic neurons 
 
The degeneration of dopamine neurons in BY273 
Is[pdat-1GFP; pdat-1 α-syn] was monitored by following 
GFP expression under the dopamine transporter (DAT-
1) promoter [20, 21]. The L4 larval stage of BY273 
animals were exposed to vehicle and krill oil (0.5 µl/ml 
media). The in vivo imaging of dopaminergic neurons 
was performed on day 1, day 3 and day 6 old animals. 
At this stage, 15–20 worms were immobilized on an 
agar padded glass slide with 2 mM levamisole and glass 
cover slip. The dopaminergic (DA) neurons were 
imaged under a Zeiss LSM780 confocal microscope 
with ×20 objective. 
 
Immunohistochemistry 
 
For immunostaining, adult worms were washed twice 
with milliQ water. Washed worms were placed on poly-
L-lysin-coated slides (Thermo Scientific), and freeze 
cracked using coverslips on a dry ice block. The 
primary 8-oxo-dG antibody was used at 1:200 dilution. 
The secondary antibody, Alexa Fluor 555-conjugated 
anti-mouse was used at 1:1500 dilution. Prolong gold 
with DAPI was used for mounting (Invitrogen, 
P36931). The slides were imaged under Zeiss LSM780 
confocal microscope with ×63 plan-Apochromat 1.4 
NA objective. 
 
Basal slowing response 
 
The basal slowing response was performed as 
described [20]. Well-fed synchronized old day 6 
worms were tested. The NGM plates with and without 
OP50 were used to count body bends per 20 seconds. 
The locomotion rate was counted after 5 minutes of 
transfer, to avoid overstimulation. The assay was 
performed 
blindfolded, 
with 
three 
independent 
replicates. 
 
Pharyngeal pumping 
 
We used a microfluidics based ScreenChip sytem (In 
vivo Biosystem) to detect pharyngeal pumping rate in 
each individual worm [20]. For this assay worms were 
age-synchronized. The worms were first washed twice 
with M9 buffer, before incubating them with 10 mM 
serotonin (prepared with M9 buffer) at room 
temperature for 30 minutes. Simultaneously, the 
ScreenChip fluidics system was prepared by following 
the user guide. The worms were loaded in 1.5 ml 
Eppendorf tubes with 1 ml M9 buffer and vacuum 
sucked into the screen-chip using a vacuum pump. 
Pumping frequency was measured by EPG recording 
using screen-chip 40 for old day 3 worms. Each 
recording was 1 to 2 minutes long, with 15–20 worms 
per genotype. 
 
Chemotaxis associated learning 
 
The short term associated memory training (STAM) 
assay was performed as described in [20, 22]. The 
assay is based on the ability of C. elegans to learn and 
remember a positive association between food and the 
weak 
chemoattractant 
butanone. 
Briefly, 
age-
synchronized worms maintained at 20°C were divided 
into naïve and trained groups. Each group had 200 to 
300 worms per condition. The trained group was 
washed three times with M9 and starved for one hour 
in M9 before training. After two hours of conditioning, 
the worms were trained to positively associate food 
and butanone, they were kept at hold for 120 minutes 
in seeded NGM plates. STAM was measured after two 
hours intervals of (spaced) training. Worms were 
tested for chemotaxis toward 10% butanone before 
(naïve) or after two hours conditioning (trained). The 
chemotaxis index was calculated as follows: (CI) =  
(n butanone − n ethanol)/(Total − n origin). Learning Index 
was calculated by subtracting the naïve CI from the 
post-conditioning training CI (CIbutanone-CInaive). The 
memory assay in AD animals was performed as 
described elsewhere [23]. 
 
Oxygen consumption rate 
 
The oxygen consumption rate was measured using 
DW1/AD clark-type polarographic oxygen sensor 
(Hansatech 
Instruments, 
model: 
Oxygraph 
Plus 
System). The protocol was exactly implemented as 
described in [24] without modification. 

www.aging-us.com 
8664 
AGING 
Senescence 
 
The senescence assay was performed as described in 
[25] with minor modifications. Briefly, the animals 
were washed with PBS and fixed with 0.2% 
glutaraldehyde + 2% PFA in 1xPBS on dry ice for 5 
minutes. Next, the animals were thawed at room 
temperature for 10 minutes and stained with freshly 
prepared X-gal staining solution containing 1 mg/ml X-
gal (stock 20 mg/ml in DMSO), 40 mM citric 
acid/sodium phosphate pH 6.5, 5 mM potassium 
ferricyanide, 150 mM NaCl and 2 mM MgCl2 and 
incubated overnight at 37°C covered in dark. The 
stained animals were washed with 1xPBS and mounted 
on glass slides with coverslips. The animals were 
imaged under a bright field microscope with ×20 
objective. 
 
Senescence assay in BJ fibroblasts was done using 
SPiDER-β-Gal marker kit. 50,000 (late passaged) 
fibroblasts cells were seeded on 35 mm imaging dish 
(IBIDI) with polymer coverslip bottom and cells were 
allowed to grow overnight at 37°C in 5% CO2 
incubator. 24 hours post seeding, cells were treated with 
100 µg/ml krill oil and allowed to grow for 6 days at 
37°C in 5% CO2 incubator. Senescence assay on live 
cells was performed on day 7 according to the 
manufacturer’s protocol. Briefly, cells were washed 
once with PBS and then treated with 1 ml of 
Bafilomycin working solution and incubated at 37°C for 
1 hour in a 5% CO2 incubator. After 1 hour, 1 ml of 
SPiDER-β-Gal working solution containing 2 µg/ml 
Hoechst was added to the cells and they were incubated 
again for 30 minutes in a 5% CO2 incubator. After 
incubation, cells were washed with PBS and then 
imaged under Zeiss LSM780 confocal microscope at 
×63 with appropriate filters. 
 
TMRE staining 
 
A TMRE (Tetra methyl rhodamine, ethyl ester) 
Mitochondrial Membrane Potential assay kit was used 
to measure the mitochondrial membrane potential. In 
total, (late passaged) 50,000 BJ fibroblasts cells were 
plated onto 35 mm imaging dish (IBIDI) with polymer 
coverslip bottom. 24 hours post seeding cells were 
treated with 100 µg/ml krill oil and the cells were 
allowed to grow for another 5 days at 37°C in 5% CO2 
incubator. On day 6, TMRE assay was performed 
according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Briefly, cells 
were stained at a final concentration of 200 nM TMRE 
and incubated in dark for 30 min at 37°C. After 
incubation, cells were washed again with PBS and live 
cell imaging was done on Zeiss LSM780 confocal 
microscope, at ×63 magnification using appropriate 
filters. 
Mitochondria copy number and gene expression 
analysis 
 
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number was 
quantified using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Briefly, 
the age-synchronized wild type and PD animals were 
individually picked in lysis buffer (TE low containing 1 
mg/ml proteinase K and 0.01 mg/ml RNase). The lysis 
was performed for 1 hr at 65°C followed by 95°C for 15 
minutes. From here this method was performed exactly 
as described in [20]. 
 
For mitochondrial gene expression analysis, trans-
criptional activation of ctc-1 and nduo-2 was measured 
in age-synchronized wild type and PD animals. The 
single worms were collected in 1 ml PBS and 
immediately snap frozen in dry ice. The protocol was 
exactly implemented as described in [20] without 
modification. 
 
RNA isolation for RNAseq 
 
Age-synchronized wild type and PD animals were 
grown on regular medium of medium supplemented 
with krill oil. These animals were harvested as day 1, 
day 3, day 6 adults and RNA isolation was performed 
the same day. Briefly, the animals were washed ×2 
with sterilized milliQ water, and collected in 1.5 ml 
Eppendorf. The worm pellets were dispensed in 600 
µl of Trizol (Sigma) and transferred to tube with 
sterile beads to homogenize the animals. From here 
RNA isolation for tissue was followed as described in 
the Direct-zol RNA Miniprep Kits protocol section. 
The isolated RNA was dissolved in 10 µl nuclease 
free water and the quality was analyzed in bio-
analyser.  
 
RNA sequencing 
 
Sequencing libraries were prepared from 200 ng total 
RNA using Nugen Universal Plus Total RNA-Seq 
library preparation kit (Tecan) with custom AnyDeplete 
design for C. elegans. Final libraries were pooled (10 
samples/run) and paired-end sequencing (2 × 71 bp) 
performed using NextSeq High Output kits on the 
NextSeq 550 sequencer. The raw sequencing data were 
demultiplexed 
using 
BCL 
Convert 
(Illumina). 
Sequencing data preprocess starts right after being 
demultiplexed. Sequences were aligned to C.elegans 
WBcel235 DNA reference (release-96) [26] using 
annotations, general transfer format (.gtf) file from the 
same release, and with STAR aligner (version 2.7.10a) 
[27]. First, an index was created using parameters --
runMode 
genomeGenerate, 
--runThreadN 
8 
--
genomeSAindexNbases 12, --sjdOverhang 69, and for 
any other parameter the default, in the specified version, 

www.aging-us.com 
8665 
AGING 
was used. Second, reads were aligned using parameters 
--runThreadN 
8, 
--outSAMtype 
BAM 
SortedByCoordinate --sjdbOverhang 69 and the ones 
suggested by STAR manual in ENCODE options 
section 
--outFilterType 
BySJout, 
--
outFilterMultimapNmax 20, --alignSJoverhangMin 8, --
alignSJDBoverhangMin 1, --outFilterMismatchNmax 
999, 
--outFilterMismatchNoverReadLmax 
0.04, 
--
alignIntronMin 
20 
--alignIntronMax 
1000000 
--
alignMatesGapMax 1000000. From the BAM file 
obtained we created an index using samtools version 
1.15.1 [28] so we could remove UMI-duplicates using 
umi-tools version 1.1.2 [29], with parameters --
log2stderr, --paired, --umi-separator=”:”. We then 
sorted the deduplicated BAM file by name and created 
fastq files with the same parameters -@ 4, -n. 
 
RNA seq data analyses 
 
Differential gene expression was performed using the 
DESeq2 R package [30], version 1.32.0. Count files 
were split into their respective groups and attributed 
defining conditions, such as ‘control’ and ‘experiment’. 
The counts for the respective conditions are merged into 
one dataframe; from this dataframe genes which have 
no counts for every sample are removed. A sample 
defining file containing the sample names along with 
their associated condition is also created, this file 
contains the relevant information for the samples within 
the merged count file. The values are then normalized 
using the DESeq2 normalization method. The standard 
DESeq2 pipeline was used to obtain the differential 
gene 
expression 
results. 
It 
starts 
by 
creating  
the 
DESeqDataSet-class 
by 
calling 
the 
DESeqDataSetFromMatrix function, using the merged 
count file, and the sample defining file are used as 
inputs, while the condition is used as the design. The 
design always uses the ‘experiment’ and compares it 
with the ‘control’. Using the estimateSizeFactors 
function, the median ratio method is utilized to estimate 
the size factors of the DESeqDataSet object. The 
DESeq2 function is called, which performs an estimate 
of dispersion followed by a negative binomial 
generalized linear model fitting and wal statistics in 
order to obtain the differential gene expression results. 
Selection of significant differentially expressed genes 
was made based on an adjusted p value (false discovery 
rate) below 0.05 and a log2-fold change value greater 
than 1 or smaller than -1. 
 
The time series analysis was performed using a 
package developed in our lab (Lefol et al., manuscript 
in preparation). The package takes in raw RNAseq 
files and creates a matrix of raw counts, these counts 
are then normalized using the DESeq2 method [30]. It 
then performs differential gene expression analyses for 
both the conditional and temporal elements of the time 
series analysis, where conditional elements are the 
comparison of the experiment versus the control at 
every time point. Temporal elements are the 
comparison of subsequent time points, where the later 
time point is used as the experiment and the earlier 
time point is used as the control. The significant genes 
from all differential gene experiments are pooled 
together and clustered using the clusterGenomics 
(Identifying clusters in genomics data by recursive 
partitioning package, version 1.0.). A functional 
enrichment of each cluster is obtained using gprofiler 
[31]. 
 
The WGCNA package [32], version 1.70–3 was used 
to obtain a weighted correlation association between 
gene modules and behavioral parameters. WGCNA 
takes in RNAseq count data. A sample file was 
manually prepared for the WGCNA package, the 
sample file details which behavioral values are 
associated with the samples inputted. The pipeline first 
removes any samples with too many missing values in 
proportion with the amount of samples and values 
inputted. The samples are then clustered and their 
power is evaluated. Based on the indications of [32], 
the power value used is the first value above the 0.8 
threshold which was a value of 4. The blockwise 
Modules function is used to calculate the gene 
modules and obtains the correlation values with the 
clinical parameters. Each gene module is run through 
gprofiler [31] in order to extract potential biological 
relevance of each gene module. 
 
Biological age predictions were performed using the 
fastq files as raw data as input in the preprocessing 
specified in the Bit age pipeline [33]. First, the data 
were processed with fastp version 0.23.2 [34] with 
parameters -g -x -q 30 -e 30 -w 8. And second, reads 
were aligned with STAR aligner and parameters --
quantMode 
GeneCounts 
--runThreadN 
8, 
--
outSAMtype BAM Unsorted --sjdbOverhang 69 and 
again the ones suggested by STAR manual in 
ENCODE options, as above. For predicting biological 
age we took raw counts from the STAR aligner output 
and computed count per million (CPM), as required by 
bit age method, with edgeR library version 3.38.1 [35]. 
We then computed predicted biological age using 
elastic net coefficients and code provided in the bit age 
material [33]. 
 
Data availability 
 
The data discussed in this publication have been 
deposited in NCBI’s Gene Expression Omnibus  
(Edgar et al., 2002) and are accessible through  
GEO 
Series 
accession 
number 
GSE207152 

www.aging-us.com 
8666 
AGING 
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=
GSE207152). 
 
RESULTS 
 
Krill oil protects dopaminergic neurons from age-
related degeneration and improves dopamine-
dependent behavior 
 
To determine whether growth in the presence of krill 
oil protected dopaminergic (DA) neurons from 
degenerating over time, we used the C. elegans PD 
model, a humanized strain, where overexpression of α-
SYN under control of the dat-1 promoter exacerbates 
age-dependent degeneration of DA neurons [15, 20]. 
As previously reported, we saw a substantial reduction 
of the number of DA neurons in adult day 6 old 
animals compared to the younger adults (day 1 and 
day 3) both when assessed by fluorescence intensity of 
the DA neuronal GFP (Figure 1A) and by scoring the 
number of DA neurons by differential interference 
contrast (DIC) microscopy (Figure 1B). Growth in 
media supplemented with krill oil resulted in a 
remarkable protection of DA neurons from age-related 
degeneration (Figure 1A and 1B). In comparison, 
aging reduced the fraction of DA neurons to less than 
70% in day 6 adults compared to 90% in day 1 adults 
when grown on standard media. In contrast, there was 
no reduction of surviving DA neurons at day 3 to day 
6 in krill oil-treated animals (Figure 1A and 1B). 
Moreover, there was a small increase in the fraction of 
surviving DA neurons in day 1 animals, suggesting a 
general protection against α-synuclein mediated 
proteotoxicity. 
 
To test whether krill oil suppressed α-synuclein 
aggregate formation, a key pathogenic hallmark of 
Parkinson’s disease, we used a reporter strain 
expressing α-synuclein coupled with GFP in body wall 
muscles [20]. Day 1 young animals showed no evidence 
of α-synuclein aggregation, whereas the day 6 old 
animals had clear presence of α-synuclein aggregates, 
averaging about 50 aggregates per animal. Interestingly, 
krill oil treated animals showed a significant reduction 
of α-synuclein aggregation, with an average of about 17 
aggregates (Figure 1C and 1D). 
 
Dopamine-regulated behaviors are well characterized 
[36], and it has been demonstrated that DA neuron-
dependent behavior, such as basal slowing response 
(BSR) and movement ability, deteriorates with age 
[20]. To determine whether improvement of DA 
neuron survival led to preservation of DA neuron 
function, we examined BSR in day 6 old wild type and 
PD animals. Intriguingly, krill oil-fed animals had 
significantly higher BSR than untreated animals 
(Figure 1E). Further supporting improved DA–
dependent behavior performance, day 6 old animals 
showed an average activity score of 400/hour as 
compared to only 340/hour in untreated PD animals. 
Whereas the wild type animals showed no change in 
response to krill oil (Figure 1F). Thus, krill oil inhibits 
α-synuclein aggregate formation, and improves DA 
neuron survival and dopamine dependent behaviors in 
old animals.  
 
Krill oil reduces senescence in C. elegans and human 
fibroblasts 
 
Senescence is a hallmark of aging and evidence 
suggests 
that 
senescence-like 
atrophy 
may 
be 
responsible for age-dependent loss of germline gonadal 
cells and self-destruction of intestinal biomass in C. 
elegans [37–39]. In 9-day old animals, 45% of wild 
type animals and 80% of PD animals exhibited positive 
β-gal staining. When these animals were fed krill oil, 
wild type and PD animals showed 35% and 60% 
reduction of positive β-gal staining, respectively (Figure 
2A and 2B). 
 
Since it is unclear whether C. elegans experiences a 
process similar to the senescence-associated secretory 
phenotype, which is an effector of senescence-driven 
aging in human tissue, we used human fibroblasts to 
validate whether krill oil counteracts senescence. When 
treated with krill oil, late passage BJ fibroblasts, which 
are widely accepted as a model to follow senescence, 
exhibited a 1.75-fold reduction in cells positive for β-
gal, which is a marker of senescent cells (Figure 2C and 
2D) as compared to the controls. The reduction in 
senescence in late passage BJ cells were accompanied 
by reduced expression of the senescence markers p21 
and TGFβ (Figure 2E). 
 
Krill oil improves mitochondrial health 
 
Oxidative stress is a fundamental feature of aging and 
a pathogenic factor in PD [3, 20]. Reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) generated due to metabolic activity by 
mitochondria are an important source of oxidative 
stress in brain cells. ROS cause oxidative DNA 
damage in both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA [40]. 
Oxidized guanine, 8-oxoG, is a biomarker of nucleic 
acid oxidation and oxidative stress. As previously 
demonstrated [20], old PD animals accumulate 8-
oxoG in their body (Figure 3A and 3B). Because 
DHA/EPA and astaxanthin are components of krill 
oil with antioxidant properties, we were interested to 
see how 8-oxoG levels were affected. Compared to 
untreated animals, krill oil supplemented day 6 old 
PD animals showed a 6-fold decrease in 8-oxoG 
levels. 

www.aging-us.com 
8667 
AGING 
 
 
Figure 1. Krill oil promotes healthy dopaminergic neuronal aging. (A) Representative images of the head region of PD animals at 
day 1, day 3 and day 6 of adulthood, Scale bar, 20 μm. (B) Survival of anterior CEPs and ADEs DA neurons during aging in response to Krill oil 
(n = 35 nematodes per experiment; three independent experiments, s.e.m; ***p < 0.001; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple 
comparison test. (C) Representative images of α-SYN aggregation in body wall muscles in day 1 and day 6 animals, Scale bar, 20 μm. (D) The 
number of aggregates in day 1 and day 6 animals in response to krill oil (n = 15 nematodes, s.e.m; NS and ***p < 0.001; one-way ANOVA 
followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test). (E) Column scatter plot representing basal slowing response of wild type and PD 
animals at adult day 6. Body bends per 20 second measured on NGM plates with and without bacteria (n = 30; Error bars, s.e.m; ***p < 
0.001; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test. (F) Column scatter plot representing locomotion activity wild 
type and PD animals at adult day 6. The activity was scored for 60 minutes (n = 50 animals per experiment; Error bars, s.e.m; NS and *p < 
0.05; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test. 

www.aging-us.com 
8668 
AGING 
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a main source of oxidative 
stress, and can be followed by measuring the oxygen 
consumption rate (OCR) [24]. While the expected age-
related reduction in OCR was seen in PD animals from 
day 1 to day 3, a drop in OCR was only apparent in day 
6 old animals fed krill oil (Figure 3C). This was not 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Krill oil delays senescence. (A, B) Representative images of β-gal staining in the head region in 9-day old adults, Scale bar, 20 
μm. Column scatter plot representing the percentage of worms with positive senescence staining in three independent experiments (n = 
50–100 individuals, column indicates mean, error bars, s.e.m, ***p < 0.001; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison 
test). (C, D) Images and quantification represents senescence in late passage BJ cells using β-gal staining (three independent experiments, 
Scale bar, 20 μm, Error bars, s.e.m; *p < 0.05; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test). (E) Relative p21 and 
TGFβ mRNA levels in BJ cells at passage 10 and 21 treated, or not, with Krill oil (100 μg/ml, 6 days) as measured by qPCR. Data represent 
means ± s.d., n = 3. *P ≤ 0.05, **P ≤ 0.01, ****P ≤ 0.0001 (two-tailed Student’s t-test). 

www.aging-us.com 
8669 
AGING 
attributable to a rise in mitochondrial copy number 
which remained relatively stable in both wild type and 
PD old day 6 animals fed on krill oil (Supplementary 
Figure 1). 
 
To test whether krill oil also promoted mitochondrial 
health in human cells, we measured the mitochondrial 
membrane potential using tetramethylrhodamine ethyl 
ester (TMRE), a dye that is imported into mitochondria 
as a function of the mitochondrial membrane potential 
and, thus, stains healthy mitochondria. After only 5 
days of treatment with krill oil, late passage human BJ 
fibroblasts showed a 1.2-fold increase in TMRE 
fluorescence intensity (Figure 3D, 3E). 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Krill oil improves mitochondrial health. (A, B) Representative image and quantification of 8-Oxo (dG) staining in old day 6 PD 
animals (n = 10 individuals, Error bars, s.e.m; ****p < 0.0001; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test). (C) Oxygen 
consumption rate in day 1, day 3 and day 6 PD animals (n = 50 individuals, two independent experiments, Error bars, s.e.m; NS and *p < 0.05, 
**p < 0.01; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test). (D, E) Image and quantification of mitochondrial membrane 
potential measured using TMRE staining in BJ fibroblast at passage 16 (p16) in the absence and presence of krill oil (n = 6 independent 
experiments, Scale bar, 20 μm, Error bars, s.e.m; **p < 0.01; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test). 

www.aging-us.com 
8670 
AGING 
Krill oil induces temporal transcriptome rewiring 
 
In the above, we showed that krill oil has a widespread 
impact on many phenotypic hallmarks of aging. To get 
an unbiased view of the pathways activated by krill oil 
in a life-course perspective, we used RNA sequencing. 
Data was collected from day 1, 3, and 6 old wild type 
and PD animals. Principal component analysis (PCA) 
analyses showed good concordance between biological 
replicates and good separation of experimental groups 
with respect to age and treatment (Supplementary 
Figure 2A). Differential gene expression analyses 
showed that there was a successive increase in the 
number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in 
both strains (Figure 4A and Supplementary Figure 2B, 
2C). In the PD strain, the number of upregulated DEGs 
increased from 586 DEGs at day 1 to 1018 in day 3 and 
1986 in day 6. 
 
To identify groups of genes that respond similarly to 
krill oil in a temporal manner, we performed gene 
cluster analysis comprising all DEGs with an absolute 
log2 fold change greater than one, as illustrated in a 
heatmap of all the genes submitted for PART clustering 
(Figure 4B). Several clusters with genes temporally 
regulated in response to krill oil were identified (Figure 
4B), that could be broadly categorized into four main 
types 
of 
cluster 
trajectories 
(Figure 
4C 
and 
Supplementary Figure 2D). Genes upregulated in day 6 
old krill oil fed animals were found in clusters C7-C10. 
Genes upregulated in the animals at day 3 and day 6 
were found in clusters C3-C6 and C17. Genes 
upregulated at day 3 only are exemplified in cluster 
C19, and finally, genes downregulated on day 3 and day 
6 are represented by C21, C23-C24. Functional 
enrichment analyses performed on each cluster 
separately revealed similarities between clusters with 
similar trajectories (Supplementary Figure 3), where 
genes upregulated in old animals were dominated by 
genes involved in metabolic processes, e.g., protein 
metabolic processes. Clusters upregulated at day 3 were 
dominated by biological processes responding to stress, 
such as unfolded protein response and immunity. 
Clusters upregulated on day 3 only comprised several 
clusters with 1352 genes, but only C19 showed enriched 
biological processes. Interestingly, these were directly 
related to neuron function, such as cell projection 
assembly. 
Similarly, 
of 
genes 
downregulated 
exclusively at day 3, only cluster 23 showed enriched 
biological processes representing various defense 
responses. 
 
To illustrate the relationship between the different 
clusters, we prepared Multi-Dimensional Scaling 
(MDS) plots that shows all the terms of the specified 
ontology (biological processes (BP)) and distinguishes 
the cluster(s) using colour and each terms relatedness 
using distance. Using a nearest ancestor clustering 
approach, where all terms found are brought up to their 
nearest common ancestor, the clusters fell nicely into 
three groups (Figure 4D). This approach clearly shows 
the 
relatedness 
between 
the 
GOs 
involving 
neurogenesis, neuron projection morphogenesis, and 
cell projection organization (representing C13, C14 and 
C20 illustrated by light grey balls), and developmental 
processes (illustrated with red, blue and yellow balls in 
the lower left quadrant). Response to stress and 
immunity are represented in the top left quadrant 
whereas 
cellular 
and 
macromolecular 
metabolic 
processes fall together (Figure 4D). 
 
Transcriptome rewiring promotes neuron survival 
 
To further narrow down which components of the 
global transcription reprogramming correlate with 
changes in phenotypic end-points, we used WGCNA 
analysis. Genes, which have similar trajectories using 
the WGCNAs clustering method, are grouped into 
modules. The modules were then correlated with three 
phenotypic endpoints, i.e., survival fraction of DA 
neurons; OCR, and locomotion ability at all time points 
(day 1, 3 and 6). We also added krill oil treatment as a 
parameter to be able to follow the directionality of 
correlation (Figure 5A). The correlation ranges from +1 
(completely positively correlated) to -1 (perfect 
negative correlation), where a positive correlation 
indicates that increased gene expression results in an 
increase of the value of that parameter or vice versa. 
 
Correlation values between all of the modules identified 
and defined parameters are shown as a heatmap (Figure 
5A). Interestingly, different phenotypic endpoints were 
correlated with different sets of modules even though 
these phenotypes are, to some extent, functionally 
linked. The red module (comprising 1462 genes) has a 
strong positive correlation with the survival of the DA 
neurons (Figure 5A). The trajectory of the red module 
showed that the genes are downregulated in day 1 adults 
(Supplementary Figure 4). The module is functionally 
enriched for mitochondrial unfolded response and 
translation. The skyblue module, comprising 144 genes 
that are functionally enriched for the biological 
processes of lysosome and defense responses, was 
inversely correlated with DA survival, OCR and 
motility (Figure 5A) with a trajectory characterized by 
downregulation in day 3 animals (Supplementary Figure 
4). For genes in the blue module, that strongly correlate 
with improved motility, the trajectory showed increased 
expression in day 6 animals. As some modules 
contained a number of genes too low for meaningful 
functional enrichment analyses, we grouped modules 
with similar trajectories (Supplementary Figure 4). 

www.aging-us.com 
8671 
AGING 
Genes upregulated in day 1 animals (turquoise, white 
and saddlebrown) were enriched for basic cellular 
processes, such as DNA repair/replication, mRNA 
processing, and biogenesis. Interestingly, there was a 
strong functional enrichment for genes regulated by the 
transcription factors cebp-1 (1.174e-22), ceh-48 (5.53e-
33), efl-1 (1.649e-12), ceh-28 (1.676e-11) (Figure 5B). 
Modules downregulated in day 1 animals (red, pink, 
dark grey) were enriched for biological processes 
related to ion transport across membranes, synaptic 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Krill oil alters genes regulation. (A) Differentially expressed genes (DEG) in PD animals in the presence and absence of krill oil 
treatment in day 1, day 3 and day 6 old animals. (B) Heat map of the time series analyses comprising all DEGs revealing 24 co-regulated 
clusters. (C) Examples of clusters (C10, C19, C5 and C21) with typical trajectories in PD animals. (D) Represents multi-dimensional scaling 
(MDS) plots showing all GOs and separating them based on clusters having similar functions. 

www.aging-us.com 
8672 
AGING 
signaling, and transmission. Functional enrichment was 
found for mitochondrial unfolded response (UPR). Two 
transcription factors elt-3 (9.006e-06) and skn-1 
(1.713e-02) were found as upstream regulators (Figure 
5C). Enriched biological processes in modules with 
trajectories upregulated in day 3 animals (blue, tan, 
cyan, light cyan, violet, dark magenta, sienna) included 
neuron differentiation, cell communication, and cell 
 
 
 
Figure 5. Krill oil rewires gene expression to promote neuron survival. (A) Heatmap from WGCNA analysis shows the correlation 
values between all of the found modules (gene groups) and defined parameters (krill oil treated, DA neuron survival, OCR and locomotion). 
The correlation ranges from +1 (completely positively correlated) to -1 (perfect negative correlation). (B–E) Gprofiler plots with functionally 
enriched transcription factors indicated; (B) Representation of the modules (turquoise, white and saddlebrown) upregulated in day 1 PD 
animals. (C) Representation of the modules (red, pink and dark grey) downregulated in day 1 PD animals. (D) Representation of the 
modules (blue, tan, cyan, light cyan, violet, dark magenta, sienna) upregulated in day 3 PD animals. (E) Representation of the modules 
(magenta, purple, dark olive green, and yellow green) upregulated in day 6 PD animals. 

www.aging-us.com 
8673 
AGING 
projection 
organization. 
tra-1 
(1.822e-03) 
was 
identified as an upstream regulator of these gene sets 
(Figure 5D). Finally, trajectories upregulated in day 6 
animals were dominated by biological processes related 
to immunity and defense, as well as protein metabolism 
(Figure 5E). Upstream regulators included nhr-6 (4.79e-
08) and hlh-30 (3.71e-05). Thus, krill oil modulated 
separate gene expression programs in different stages of 
adulthood. 
 
Global gene expression changes induced by krill oil 
promote neuron survival 
 
The gene expression signature in young adults appeared 
to reflect modulation of biological processes and 
transcription factors know to promote healthy aging. To 
test whether these changes in gene expression is indeed 
attenuating DA neuron degeneration in old animals, we 
scored the dopaminergic neuron survival after RNAi 
mediated knock-down (Figure 6A and 6B). Depletion of 
the central oxidative stress regulator SKN-1, which was 
downregulated in the krill oil treated animals (Figure 
5C), the oxidative stress regulator LMD-3, and 
mitochondrial transcription factor HMG-5, led to 
abrogation of the neuroprotective effect of krill oil in 
the PD strain (Figure 6A). However, depletion of JNK-
1, which was strongly upregulated in day 3 and 6 old 
animals, had no effect (Figure 6A). Upon depletion of 
cnnm-3, pbo-2 and rim-1 (human homologs of CNNM3, 
PLCB4 and RIMS1, respectively), the neuroprotective 
effect of krill oil was abolished in the PD strain, while 
no effect was seen in the wild type background. Thus,
 
 
 
Figure 6. Gene expression rewiring promotes dopaminergic neuron survival during aging. (A) Representative images of the head 
region of PD animals at day 6 adulthood in control and krill oil treated animals following knockdown of jnk-1, skn-1, hmg-5 and lmd-3 by 
RNAi, Scale bar, 20 μm. Time series plot for same genes are show on top. The scatter dot plots represent GFP intensity of the CEPs 
dopaminergic neurons in day 6 PD nematodes following knockdown of jnk-1, skn-1, hmg-5 and lmd-3 (n = 20 individuals; Error bars, s.e.m; 
***p < 0.001; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test). (B) representative images and scatter dot plots represents 
intensity of the dopaminergic neurons after depleting cnnm-3, pbo-2 and rim-1 in PD animals (n = 14 individuals, Scale bar, 20 μm Error bars, 
s.e.m; ***p < 0.001; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test), co-related with time series plot for same genes. 

www.aging-us.com 
8674 
AGING 
this supports that krill oil induces changes in expression 
of several genes that directly promote DA neuron 
survival (Figure 6A and 6B). 
 
Krill oil improves dopamine dependent cognition in 
C. elegans  
 
To assess whether increased DA neuron survival and 
modulation of gene expression programs is accompanied 
by improved DA function, we measured dopamine 
dependent chemosensory cognition [41]. We found that 
krill oil-fed PD animals showed significant improvement 
of chemotaxis-associated learning capacity (Figure 7A). 
DA neurons regulate pharyngeal pumping [42], and the 
observation that krill oil fed PD animals displayed 
improved pharyngeal pumping, which is a commonly 
accepted healthspan metric in C. elegans (Figure 7B). 
Notably, wild type animals showed no significant  
benefit with respect to pharyngeal pumping nor  
cognition improvement (Figure 7A and 7B). Thus, krill 
oil improves dopamine dependent behaviors and 
cognition in C. elegans. To ask whether the 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Krill oil improves healthspan. (A) The learning index was calculated from a positive association with butanone in wild type 
and PD animals at adult day 6 (n = 150 individuals, two independent experiments, error bars, s.e.m; NS, *p < 0.05; one-way ANOVA followed 
by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test). (B) Quantification of pharyngeal pumping frequency (Hz) monitored in wild type and PD animals 
using the NemaMetrix screenchip based assay. The column scatter plot represents pharyngeal pumping frequency of adult day 3 animals 
(n = 15–20 individuals, Error bars, s.e.m NS and **P ≤ 0.001, ****p < 0.0001; one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison 
test). (C) Predicted biological age of wild type and PD animals in response to krill oil using BiTAge calculator. (D) TEM image of day 9 old in 
PD animals, boxed area represents the cuticle (scale bar 2000 nm). 

www.aging-us.com 
8675 
AGING 
neuroprotective effect might be relevant for other 
neurodegenerative 
diseases, 
we 
tested 
short-term 
associated memory in the C. elegans Alzheimer’s 
disease (AD) models [43]. A series of AD strains were 
used, including worms harboring neuronal Aβ pathology 
(CL2355), neuronal Tau pathology (BR5270 and CK12), 
as well as worms bearing both pathologies (UM0001) 
[44]. The chemotaxis-based memory-liked scores were 
improved in all AD worm strains fed with krill oil 
(Supplementary Figure 5A). The effect on senescence 
was assessed in a strain expressing Tau protein pan-
neuronally (BR5270) [44], whereby animals fed with 
krill oil showed a 30 percent reduction in positive β-gal 
staining (Supplementary Figure 5B and 5C). 
 
As aging is the main risk factor for PD, and many 
transcription factors known to affect lifespan in C. 
elegans emerged as regulators of the modules that 
associated with DA neuron survival, OCR, and motility, 
we were interested to test whether krill oil might 
modulate biological age estimates. Using the BiTAge 
calculator [33] krill oil appeared to significantly reduce 
the predicted biological age of day 6 old adults (Figure 
7C). Finally, electron microscopy confirmed the 
younger appearance (Figure 7D), which is consistent 
with the improved healthspan. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
As aging has proved to be modifiable, there is a quest to 
identify anti-aging interventions [45]. Via genetic and 
pharmaceutical 
approaches, 
a 
variety 
of 
aging 
phenotypes can be significantly ameliorated, leading to 
extended lifespan and longer healthspan [43, 45, 46]. 
The possibility to reduce the burden of the major 
neurodegenerative diseases by counteracting aging, the 
most important risk factor of these diseases, gives a 
strong 
motivation 
to 
find 
novel 
healthspan 
interventions. 
 
Krill oil has been shown to have neuroprotective 
properties in cells and rodent models [9, 12]. The 
underlying mechanisms have mainly been proposed to 
be via suppression of microglial activation, neuro-
inflammation, and oxidative stress [9]. However, 
studies evaluating how krill oil affects neuronal health 
through a natural life course is lacking. Here, we show 
that krill oil effectively protects DA neurons from age-
related degeneration and reduces α-SYN aggregation in 
a C. elegans PD model. Consistently, krill oil improved 
dopamine dependent cognition and behavior, such as 
basal slowing response and pharyngeal pumping, in old 
PD animals.  
 
Moreover, we uncovered that krill oil attenuates age-
related neurodegeneration through rewiring of gene 
expression programs. Longitudinal analyses of global 
gene expression changes were used to identify gene sets 
that correlated with improvement of phenotypic read-
outs, such as DA neuron survival. Functional 
enrichment of immunity and stress response pathways 
reflected a general anti-inflammatory effect of krill oil, 
exemplified with regulation of SKN-1, a master 
regulator of oxidative stress responses in C. elegans 
[47]. During conditions of oxidative stress, e.g., induced 
by mitochondrial dysfunction, SKN-1 is imported to 
nuclei, where it activates a coordinated transcription 
response 
[48, 
49]. 
Interestingly, 
the 
gradual 
upregulation of skn-1 expression with age was to a large 
extent abrogated in krill oil treated animals. Functional 
enrichment of SKN-1 regulated genes among the 
downregulated DEGs already in day 1 adults perhaps 
reflecting 
the 
potent 
antioxidant 
potential 
of 
astaxanthin. Similarly, LMD-3, an outer-mitochondrial 
membrane component involved in relaying the 
healthspan promoting effects of mild mitochondrial 
functions [20], had a similar trajectory as SKN-1. The 
role for SKN-1 in maintaining healthspan [48] and DA 
neuron survival upon oxidative stress and mild 
mitochondrial dysfunction [50, 51] are well described. 
Our data suggest that SKN-1 expression is tuned to a 
lower set-level in krill oil treated animals, perhaps 
reflecting a coordinated response to avoid pathogenic 
ROS signaling. Downregulation of SKN-1 - regulated 
genes were also consistent with functional data 
confirming that krill oil improves mitochondrial 
function. Consistently, genes regulated by krill oil were 
also functionally enriched for a wide array of metabolic 
processes. This is in line with a previous metabolomic 
analysis of C. elegans supplemented with krill oil, albeit 
from a different source than used in the present study 
[14]. Enrichment for biological processes involved in 
amino acid metabolism and protein metabolism in our 
study is consistent with increased levels of amino acids 
and derivatives (e.g., L-proline and L-phenylalanine) 
[14]. 
 
Interestingly, our data also suggest that krill oil might, 
in addition to the general oxidative stress related 
response, have more specific effects on synaptic 
transmission and neuronal functions. CEH-28, for 
example, is involved in regulation of synapse 
organization and neuron differentiation, in particular of 
cholinergic M4 motor neurons. It is possible that 
upregulation of CEH-28 responsive genes is related to 
choline in krill oil. RIM-1 is a positive regulator of 
cholinergic synaptic transmission in neuromuscular 
junctions [52]. PBO-2, phospholipase C beta expressed 
throughout the nervous system [53], facilitates synaptic 
transmission at neuromuscular junctions [53, 54] by 
stimulating acetylcholine release [55]. Upregulation of 
rim-1 and pbo-2 expression in day 3 and day 6 old 

www.aging-us.com 
8676 
AGING 
animals is, thus, consistent with improved motoric 
function with advancing age. The C. elegans PD model 
further confirmed that protection of DA neurons 
depended on pbo-2 and rim-1. In day 1 adults, genes 
regulated by the transcription factor CEBP-1 were 
upregulated. In C. elegans, CEBP-1 has been shown to 
activate a gene expression program that protects axons 
from degeneration [56]. Genes regulated by NHR-6, a 
transcription factor expressed in chemosensory neurons 
found to be important for functional plasticity [57], 
were enriched in day 6 adults. It is possible that this 
might be directly related to DA neuron survival, as loss 
of the mammalian ortholog (NR4A1) exacerbated DA 
loss in rats [58]. Expression of the NR4A subfamily was 
downregulated in PD patients [59] and it has been 
proposed that NR4A affect PD by modulating 
neuroinflammation [60]. Upregulation of Cyclin M 
protein 3, CNNM-3, was interesting in this regard, 
because it encodes a magnesium transporter expressed 
in hypodermis and rectum that has been shown to 
function in ROS homeostasis [61]. Its requirement for 
neuronal survival might suggest a systemic contribution 
to 
neuroprotection 
that 
might 
resemble 
the 
neuroinflammation response and microglial activation 
in mammalian cells. 
 
Further functional relevance of these gene expression 
changes was shown by the striking suppression of age-
related changes in cellular biomarkers of aging such as 
age-related loss of mitochondrial membrane potential 
and function by krill oil in both C. elegans and 
mammalian cells. Similarly, senescence and oxidative 
stress, as measured through 8-oxoG staining, was 
suppressed. Thus, it was interesting to see that several 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Krill oil promotes neuron health by suppressing aging hallmarks. The graphical representation demonstrates the benefit 
of krill oil and the pathways involved which leads to protection of DA neurons in C. elegans and human BJ fibroblast cells. The illustration 
was generated using https://biorender.com/. 

www.aging-us.com 
8677 
AGING 
known regulators of lifespan appeared as upstream 
regulators in our RNA sequencing analyses. Genes 
downregulated in day 1 krill oil fed animals were 
enriched for ELT-3, which interacts with SKN-1 to 
activate a coordinated transcription response to oxidative 
stress [62] and thereby delays aging in C. elegans 
[63]. Similarly, EFL-1, promotes negative regulation of 
MPK-1 [64, 65]. Genes regulated by TRA-1, which 
regulates 
hermaphrodite 
lifespan 
and 
healthspan 
upstream of the classical lifespan regulating transcription 
factor DAF-16 [66], were enriched among the genes 
upregulated in day 3 animals. Together, this makes a 
strong argument that krill oil achieves neuroprotection 
by slowing down the aging process. Although not 
completely comparable formulations, krill oil was 
previously found to increase C. elegans lifespan [14], 
supporting that the reduction in biological age estimates 
found in the present study are functionally relevant. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
We show that krill oil protects DA neurons from age-
related 
degeneration 
and 
enhances 
dopamine-
dependent behavior and cognition in C.elegans PD 
models (Figure 8). We show that Krill oil promotes 
healthy ageing by counteracting many processes that 
drive 
aging. 
Specifically, 
Krill 
oil 
suppresses 
accumulation of oxidative DNA damage, counteracts 
loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and 
function, suppresses senescence, and reduces α-SYN 
aggregation in old animals. Longitudinal RNA 
sequencing analyses showed that krill oil rewires 
global gene expression programs in mid-life and in old 
animals to attenuate several hallmarks of aging, results 
in remarkable protection of DA neuron survival in 
aging animals. Thus, krill oil supplementation might 
serve as a possible approach for healthy brain aging 
interventions. 
 
Abbreviations 
 
PD: Parkinson’s disease; DA: Dopaminergic neurons; 
AD: Alzheimer’s disease; NDDs: Neurodegenerative 
diseases; C. elegans: Caenorhabditis elegans. 
 
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS 
 
TS performed experiments, analyzed data, wrote draft 
manuscript, edited manuscript YL analyzed data, 
interpreted data, contributed to manuscript writing LL 
performed experiments, analyzed data VS analyzed 
data, interpreted data, contributed to manuscript writing 
TL, SG, YA performed experiments KS, EFF 
supervision and data interpretation HN designed the 
study, 
supervised 
and 
interpreted 
data, 
wrote 
manuscript. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
 
We would like to thank Lena Burri for critical reading 
and comments on the manuscript. 
 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 
 
The work was initiated on initiative of Aker BioMarine, 
who provided krill oil and covered running costs for the 
project. 
 
FUNDING 
 
This work was supported by the Research Council of 
Norway [grant number 302483] and Aker BioMarine. 
YPL was supported 
by 
a EUROSTARS 
grant 
LEMONAID (grant no: 312005). This project has 
received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 
2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie 
Skłodowska-Curie grant agreement No: 945371 for VSM. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
1. 
Fang EF, Xie C, Schenkel JA, Wu C, Long Q, Cui H, 
Aman Y, Frank J, Liao J, Zou H, Wang NY, Wu J, Liu X, 
et al. A research agenda for ageing in China in the 
21st century (2nd edition): Focusing on basic and 
translational research, long-term care, policy and 
social networks. Ageing Res Rev. 2020; 64:101174. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2020.101174 
PMID:32971255 
2. 
Fang EF, Scheibye-Knudsen M, Chua KF, Mattson MP, 
Croteau DL, Bohr VA. Nuclear DNA damage signalling 
to mitochondria in ageing. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 
2016; 17:308–21. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/nrm.2016.14 
PMID:26956196 
3. 
López-Otín C, Blasco MA, Partridge L, Serrano M, 
Kroemer G. The hallmarks of aging. Cell. 2013; 
153:1194–217. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2013.05.039 
PMID:23746838 
4. 
Aman Y, Schmauck-Medina T, Hansen M, Morimoto 
RI, Simon AK, Bjedov I, Palikaras K, Simonsen A, 
Johansen T, Tavernarakis N, Rubinsztein DC, Partridge 
L, Kroemer G, et al. Autophagy in healthy aging and 
disease. Nat Aging. 2021; 1:634–50. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s43587-021-00098-4 
PMID:34901876 
5. 
Hansen M, Rubinsztein DC, Walker DW. Autophagy as 
a promoter of longevity: insights from model 
organisms. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2018; 19:579–93. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41580-018-0033-y 
PMID:30006559 

www.aging-us.com 
8678 
AGING 
 6. Yalagala PCR, Sugasini D, Zaldua SB, Tai LM, Subbaiah 
PV. Lipase Treatment of Dietary Krill Oil, but Not Fish 
Oil, Enables Enrichment of Brain Eicosapentaenoic 
Acid and Docosahexaenoic Acid. Mol Nutr Food Res. 
2020; 64:e2000059. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/mnfr.202000059 
PMID:32304625 
 7. Ulven SM, Holven KB. Comparison of bioavailability of 
krill oil versus fish oil and health effect. Vasc Health 
Risk Manag. 2015; 11:511–24. 
https://doi.org/10.2147/VHRM.S85165 
PMID:26357480 
 8. Grimmig B, Daly L, Subbarayan M, Hudson C, 
Williamson R, Nash K, Bickford PC. Astaxanthin is 
neuroprotective in an aged mouse model of 
Parkinson's disease. Oncotarget. 2017; 9:10388–401. 
https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.23737 
PMID:29535814 
 9. Andraka JM, Sharma N, Marchalant Y. Can krill oil be 
of 
use 
for 
counteracting 
neuroinflammatory 
processes induced by high fat diet and aging? 
Neurosci Res. 2020; 157:1–14. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neures.2019.08.001 
PMID:31445058 
10. Ierna M, Kerr A, Scales H, Berge K, Griinari M. 
Supplementation of diet with krill oil protects against 
experimental 
rheumatoid 
arthritis. 
BMC 
Musculoskelet Disord. 2010; 11:136. 
https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2474-11-136 
PMID:20587038 
11. Ambati RR, Phang SM, Ravi S, Aswathanarayana RG. 
Astaxanthin: sources, extraction, stability, biological 
activities and its commercial applications--a review. 
Mar Drugs. 2014; 12:128–52. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/md12010128 
PMID:24402174 
12. Choi JY, Jang JS, Son DJ, Im HS, Kim JY, Park JE, Choi 
WR, Han SB, Hong JT. Antarctic Krill Oil Diet Protects 
against Lipopolysaccharide-Induced Oxidative Stress, 
Neuroinflammation and Cognitive Impairment. Int J 
Mol Sci. 2017; 18:2554. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms18122554 
PMID:29182579 
13. Tissenbaum HA. Using C. elegans for aging research. 
Invertebr Reprod Dev. 2015; 59:59–63. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/07924259.2014.940470 
PMID:26136622 
14. Shi J, Wang Y, Jiang F, Liu Y, Xu YJ. The effect of krill 
oil on longevity and locomotion: a pilot study. Mol 
Omics. 2022; 18:206–13. 
https://doi.org/10.1039/d1mo00373a 
PMID:34935825 
15. Lakso M, Vartiainen S, Moilanen AM, Sirviö J, Thomas 
JH, Nass R, Blakely RD, Wong G. Dopaminergic 
neuronal loss and motor deficits in Caenorhabditis 
elegans overexpressing human alpha-synuclein. J 
Neurochem. 2003; 86:165–72. 
https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1471-4159.2003.01809.x 
PMID:12807436 
16. Cao S, Gelwix CC, Caldwell KA, Caldwell GA. Torsin-
mediated protection from cellular stress in the 
dopaminergic neurons of Caenorhabditis elegans. J 
Neurosci. 2005; 25:3801–12. 
https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5157-04.2005 
PMID:15829632 
17. Kuwahara T, Koyama A, Gengyo-Ando K, Masuda M, 
Kowa H, Tsunoda M, Mitani S, Iwatsubo T. Familial 
Parkinson mutant alpha-synuclein causes dopamine 
neuron dysfunction in transgenic Caenorhabditis 
elegans. J Biol Chem. 2006; 281:334–40. 
https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M504860200 
PMID:16260788 
18. Cooper AA, Gitler AD, Cashikar A, Haynes CM, Hill KJ, 
Bhullar B, Liu K, Xu K, Strathearn KE, Liu F, Cao S, 
Caldwell KA, Caldwell GA, et al. Alpha-synuclein 
blocks ER-Golgi traffic and Rab1 rescues neuron loss 
in Parkinson's models. Science. 2006; 313:324–8. 
https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1129462 
PMID:16794039 
19. Brenner S. The genetics of Caenorhabditis elegans. 
Genetics. 1974; 77:71–94. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/genetics/77.1.71 
PMID:4366476 
20. SenGupta T, Palikaras K, Esbensen YQ, Konstantinidis 
G, 
Galindo 
FJN, 
Achanta 
K, 
Kassahun 
H, 
Stavgiannoudaki I, Bohr VA, Akbari M, Gaare J, Tzoulis 
C, Tavernarakis N, Nilsen H. Base excision repair 
causes age-dependent accumulation of single-
stranded DNA breaks that contribute to Parkinson 
disease pathology. Cell Rep. 2021; 36:109668. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2021.109668 
PMID:34496255 
21. Palikaras K, SenGupta T, Nilsen H, Tavernarakis N. 
Assessment of dopaminergic neuron degeneration in 
a C. elegans model of Parkinson's disease. STAR 
Protoc. 2022; 3:101264. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.xpro.2022.101264 
PMID:35403008 
22. Kauffman A, Parsons L, Stein G, Wills A, Kaletsky R, 
Murphy C. C. elegans positive butanone learning, 
short-term, and long-term associative memory 
assays. J Vis Exp. 2011; 2490. 
https://doi.org/10.3791/2490 
PMID:21445035 

www.aging-us.com 
8679 
AGING 
23. Fang EF, Hou Y, Palikaras K, Adriaanse BA, Kerr JS, 
Yang B, Lautrup S, Hasan-Olive MM, Caponio D, Dan 
X, Rocktäschel P, Croteau DL, Akbari M, et al. 
Mitophagy inhibits amyloid-β and tau pathology and 
reverses cognitive deficits in models of Alzheimer's 
disease. Nat Neurosci. 2019; 22:401–12. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-018-0332-9 
PMID:30742114 
24. Palikaras K, Tavernarakis N. Measuring Oxygen 
Consumption Rate in Caenorhabditis elegans. Bio 
Protoc. 2016; 6:e2049. 
https://doi.org/10.21769/BioProtoc.2049 
PMID:28239622 
25. Debacq-Chainiaux F, Erusalimsky JD, Campisi J, 
Toussaint O. Protocols to detect senescence-
associated beta-galactosidase (SA-betagal) activity, a 
biomarker of senescent cells in culture and in vivo. 
Nat Protoc. 2009; 4:1798–806. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/nprot.2009.191 
PMID:20010931 
26. Cunningham F, Allen JE, Allen J, Alvarez-Jarreta J, 
Amode MR, Armean IM, Austine-Orimoloye O, Azov 
AG, Barnes I, Bennett R, Berry A, Bhai J, Bignell A, et al. 
Ensembl 2022. Nucleic Acids Res. 2022; 50:D988–95. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkab1049 
PMID:34791404 
27. Dobin A, Davis CA, Schlesinger F, Drenkow J, Zaleski C, 
Jha S, Batut P, Chaisson M, Gingeras TR. STAR: 
ultrafast universal RNA-seq aligner. Bioinformatics. 
2013; 29:15–21. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/bts635 
PMID:23104886 
28. Li H, Handsaker B, Wysoker A, Fennell T, Ruan J, 
Homer N, Marth G, Abecasis G, Durbin R, and 1000 
Genome Project Data Processing Subgroup. The 
Sequence Alignment/Map format and SAMtools. 
Bioinformatics. 2009; 25:2078–9. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btp352 
PMID:19505943 
29. Smith T, Heger A, Sudbery I. UMI-tools: modeling 
sequencing errors in Unique Molecular Identifiers to 
improve quantification accuracy. Genome Res. 2017; 
27:491–9. 
https://doi.org/10.1101/gr.209601.116 
PMID:28100584 
30. Love MI, Huber W, Anders S. Moderated estimation 
of fold change and dispersion for RNA-seq data with 
DESeq2. Genome Biol. 2014; 15:550. 
https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-014-0550-8 
PMID:25516281 
31. Raudvere U, Kolberg L, Kuzmin I, Arak T, Adler P, 
Peterson H, Vilo J. g:Profiler: a web server for functional 
enrichment analysis and conversions of gene lists (2019 
update). Nucleic Acids Res. 2019; 47:W191–8. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkz369 
PMID:31066453 
32. Langfelder P, Horvath S. WGCNA: an R package for 
weighted 
correlation 
network 
analysis. 
BMC 
Bioinformatics. 2008; 9:559. 
https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-9-559 
PMID:19114008 
33. Meyer DH, Schumacher B. BiT age: A transcriptome-
based aging clock near the theoretical limit of 
accuracy. Aging Cell. 2021; 20:e13320. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/acel.13320 
PMID:33656257 
34. Chen S, Zhou Y, Chen Y, Gu J. fastp: an ultra-fast all-in-
one FASTQ preprocessor. Bioinformatics. 2018; 
34:i884–90. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/bty560 
PMID:30423086 
35. Robinson MD, McCarthy DJ, Smyth GK. edgeR: a 
Bioconductor package for differential expression 
analysis 
of 
digital 
gene 
expression 
data. 
Bioinformatics. 2010; 26:139–40. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btp616 
PMID:19910308 
36. Cooper JF, Van Raamsdonk JM. Modeling Parkinson's 
Disease in C. elegans. J Parkinsons Dis. 2018; 8:17–32. 
https://doi.org/10.3233/JPD-171258 
PMID:29480229 
37. de la Guardia Y, Gilliat AF, Hellberg J, Rennert P, 
Cabreiro F, Gems D. Run-on of germline apoptosis 
promotes 
gonad 
senescence 
in 
C. 
elegans. 
Oncotarget. 2016; 7:39082–96. 
https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.9681 
PMID:27256978 
38. Ezcurra M, Benedetto A, Sornda T, Gilliat AF, Au C, 
Zhang Q, van Schelt S, Petrache AL, Wang H, de la 
Guardia Y, Bar-Nun S, Tyler E, Wakelam MJ, Gems D. 
C. elegans Eats Its Own Intestine to Make Yolk 
Leading to Multiple Senescent Pathologies. Curr Biol. 
2018; 28:2544–56.e5. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2018.06.035 
PMID:30100339 
39. Kern CC, Townsend S, Salzmann A, Rendell NB, Taylor 
GW, Comisel RM, Foukas LC, Bähler J, Gems D. C. 
elegans feed yolk to their young in a form of primitive 
lactation. Nat Commun. 2021; 12:5801. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-25821-y 
PMID:34611154 
40. McKinnon PJ. DNA repair deficiency and neurological 
disease. Nat Rev Neurosci. 2009; 10:100–12. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/nrn2559 
PMID:19145234 

www.aging-us.com 
8680 
AGING 
41. Bettinger JC, McIntire SL. State-dependency in C. 
elegans. Genes Brain Behav. 2004; 3:266–72. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1601-183X.2004.00080.x 
PMID:15344920 
42. Fang EF, Waltz TB, Kassahun H, Lu Q, Kerr JS,  Wilson 
MA, Iser WB, Eckley DM, Zhang Y, et al. Tomatidine 
enhances lifespan and healthspan in C. elegans 
through mitophagy induction via the SKN-1/Nrf2 
pathway. Sci Rep. 2017; 7:46208. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/srep46208 
PMID:28397803 
43. Xie C, Zhuang XX, Niu Z, Ai R, Lautrup S, Zheng S, Jiang 
Y, Han R, Gupta TS, Cao S, Lagartos-Donate MJ, Cai 
CZ, Xie LM, et al. Amelioration of Alzheimer's disease 
pathology by mitophagy inducers identified via 
machine learning and a cross-species workflow. Nat 
Biomed Eng. 2022; 6:76–93. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41551-021-00819-5 
PMID:34992270 
44. Wang C, Saar V, Leung KL, Chen L, Wong G. Human 
amyloid β peptide and tau co-expression impairs 
behavior and causes specific gene expression changes 
in Caenorhabditis elegans. Neurobiol Dis. 2018; 
109:88–101. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2017.10.003 
PMID:28982592 
45. Partridge L, Fuentealba M, Kennedy BK. The quest to 
slow ageing through drug discovery. Nat Rev Drug 
Discov. 2020; 19:513–32. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41573-020-0067-7 
PMID:32467649 
46. Fang EF, Hou Y, Lautrup S, Jensen MB, Yang B, 
SenGupta T, Caponio D, Khezri R, Demarest TG, Aman 
Y, Figueroa D, Morevati M, Lee HJ, et al. NAD+ 
augmentation 
restores 
mitophagy 
and 
limits 
accelerated aging in Werner syndrome. Nat Commun. 
2019; 10:5284. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13172-8 
PMID:31754102 
47. Blackwell TK, Steinbaugh MJ, Hourihan JM, Ewald CY, 
Isik M. SKN-1/Nrf, stress responses, and aging in 
Caenorhabditis elegans. Free Radic Biol Med. 2015; 
88:290–301. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2015.06.008 
PMID:26232625 
48. Yuan F, Zhou J, Xu L, Jia W, Chun L, Xu XZS, Liu J. 
GABA receptors differentially regulate life span and 
health 
span 
in 
C. 
elegans 
through 
distinct 
downstream mechanisms. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol. 
2019; 317:C953–63. 
https://doi.org/10.1152/ajpcell.00072.2019 
PMID:31433690 
49. Lionaki E, Gkikas I, Daskalaki I, Ioannidi MK, Klapa MI, 
Tavernarakis 
N. 
Mitochondrial 
protein 
import 
determines 
lifespan 
through 
metabolic 
reprogramming and de novo serine biosynthesis. Nat 
Commun. 2022; 13:651. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-28272-1 
PMID:35115503 
50. Vanduyn N, Settivari R, Wong G, Nass R. SKN-1/Nrf2 
inhibits 
dopamine 
neuron 
degeneration 
in 
a 
Caenorhabditis elegans model of methylmercury 
toxicity. Toxicol Sci. 2010; 118:613–24. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/toxsci/kfq285 
PMID:20855423 
51. Ray A, Martinez BA, Berkowitz LA, Caldwell GA, 
Caldwell KA. Mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative 
stress, and neurodegeneration elicited by a bacterial 
metabolite in a C. elegans Parkinson's model. Cell 
Death Dis. 2014; 5:e984. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/cddis.2013.513 
PMID:24407237 
52. Stigloher C, Zhan H, Zhen M, Richmond J, Bessereau 
JL. The presynaptic dense projection of the 
Caenorhabditis elegans cholinergic neuromuscular 
junction localizes synaptic vesicles at the active zone 
through SYD-2/liprin and UNC-10/RIM-dependent 
interactions. J Neurosci. 2011; 31:4388–96. 
https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.6164-10.2011 
PMID:21430140 
53. Miller KG, Emerson MD, Rand JB. Goalpha and 
diacylglycerol kinase negatively regulate the Gqalpha 
pathway in C. elegans. Neuron. 1999; 24:323–33. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/s0896-6273(00)80847-8 
PMID:10571227 
54. Lackner MR, Nurrish SJ, Kaplan JM. Facilitation of 
synaptic transmission by EGL-30 Gqalpha and EGL-8 
PLCbeta: DAG binding to UNC-13 is required to 
stimulate acetylcholine release. Neuron. 1999; 
24:335–46. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/s0896-6273(00)80848-x 
PMID:10571228 
55. Titley KC, Mayhall JT. Pathologic findings in 
radiographs taken as part of an epidemiological survey 
in the Sioux lookout zone. Ont Dent. 1975; 52:5–10. 
PMID:1057122 
56. Ding C, Wu Y, Dabas H, Hammarlund M. Activation of 
the CaMKII-Sarm1-ASK1-p38 MAP kinase pathway 
protects against axon degeneration caused by loss of 
mitochondria. Elife. 2022; 11:e73557. 
https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.73557 
PMID:35285800 
57. Rossillo M, Ringstad N. Development of specialized 
sensory neurons engages a nuclear receptor 

www.aging-us.com 
8681 
AGING 
required for functional plasticity. Genes Dev. 2020; 
34:1666–79. 
https://doi.org/10.1101/gad.342212.120 
PMID:33184226 
58. Rouillard C, Baillargeon J, Paquet B, St-Hilaire M, 
Maheux J, Lévesque C, Darlix N, Majeur S, Lévesque 
D. Genetic disruption of the nuclear receptor Nur77 
(Nr4a1) in rat reduces dopamine cell loss and l-Dopa-
induced dyskinesia in experimental Parkinson's 
disease. Exp Neurol. 2018; 304:143–53. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2018.03.008 
PMID:29530712 
59. Montarolo F, Perga S, Martire S, Navone DN, Marchet 
A, Leotta D, Bertolotto A. Altered NR4A Subfamily 
Gene Expression Level in Peripheral Blood of 
Parkinson's 
and 
Alzheimer's 
Disease 
Patients. 
Neurotox Res. 2016; 30:338–44. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12640-016-9626-4 
PMID:27159982 
60. Popichak KA, Hammond SL, Moreno JA, Afzali MF, 
Backos DS, Slayden RD, Safe S, Tjalkens RB. 
Compensatory Expression of Nur77 and Nurr1 
Regulates NF-κB-Dependent Inflammatory Signaling 
in Astrocytes. Mol Pharmacol. 2018; 94:1174–86. 
https://doi.org/10.1124/mol.118.112631 
PMID:30111648 
61. Simón J, Goikoetxea-Usandizaga N, Serrano-Maciá M, 
Fernández-Ramos D, Sáenz de Urturi D, Gruskos JJ, 
Fernández-Tussy P, Lachiondo-Ortega S, González-
Recio I, Rodríguez-Agudo R, Gutiérrez-de-Juan V, 
Rodríguez-Iruretagoyena B, Varela-Rey M, et al. 
Magnesium accumulation upon cyclin M4 silencing 
activates microsomal triglyceride transfer protein 
improving NASH. J Hepatol. 2021; 75:34–45. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhep.2021.01.043 
PMID:33571553 
62. Hu Q, D'Amora DR, MacNeil LT, Walhout AJM, 
Kubiseski TJ. The Oxidative Stress Response in 
Caenorhabditis 
elegans 
Requires 
the 
GATA 
Transcription Factor ELT-3 and SKN-1/Nrf2. Genetics. 
2017; 206:1909–22. 
https://doi.org/10.1534/genetics.116.198788 
PMID:28600327 
63. Xu X, Kim SK. The GATA transcription factor egl-27 
delays aging by promoting stress resistance in 
Caenorhabditis 
elegans. 
PLoS 
Genet. 
2012; 
8:e1003108. 
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1003108 
PMID:23271974 
64. Lin B, Reinke V. The candidate MAP kinase 
phosphorylation substrate DPL-1 (DP) promotes 
expression of the MAP kinase phosphatase LIP-1 in C. 
elegans germ cells. Dev Biol. 2008; 316:50–61. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ydbio.2007.12.042 
PMID:18304523 
65. Page BD, Guedes S, Waring D, Priess JR. The C. 
elegans E2F- and DP-related proteins are required for 
embryonic asymmetry and negatively regulate 
Ras/MAPK signaling. Mol Cell. 2001; 7:451–60. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/s1097-2765(01)00193-9 
PMID:11463371 
66. Ji H, Qi Z, Schrapel D, Le M, Luo Y, Yan B, Gladkich J, 
Schaefer M, Liu L, Herr I. Sulforaphane Targets TRA-
1/GLI Upstream of DAF-16/FOXO to Promote C. 
elegans Longevity and Healthspan. Front Cell Dev 
Biol. 2021; 9:784999. 
https://doi.org/10.3389/fcell.2021.784999 
PMID:34926464 
 
 

www.aging-us.com 
8682 
AGING 
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS 
 
Supplementary Figures 
 
 
 
 
Supplementary Figure 1. Krill oil has no effect on mitochondrial copy number in C. elegans. mitochondrial copy number in day 6 
old Wild type and PD animals in response to krill oil (n = 8 individuals, three independent experiments, Error bars, s.e.m; NS p ˃ 0.05; one-
way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test). 
 

www.aging-us.com 
8683 
AGING 
 
 
Supplementary Figure 2. Krill oil alters genes regulation in C. elegans. (A) Represents the PCA plot of wild type and PD animals in 
three separate time points day1, day3 and day6 animals. (B) Represents differentially expressed genes (DEG) in PD animals in presence and 
absence of krill oil treatment in day 1, day 3 and day 6 animal. (C) Represents the volcano plot of significant genes upregulated and 
downregulated in PD animals treated with krill oil in three different time point day1, day3 and day 6. (D) Represents clusters trajectories 
with upregulated and downregulated GOs in all clusters in PD animals treated with and without krill oil in three different time points day 1, 
day3 and day6. 
 

www.aging-us.com 
8684 
AGING 
 
 
Supplementary Figure 3. Krill oil stimulates gene functions. Represents functional enrichment analysis performed on each cluster 
separately in PD animals treated with krill oil. 
 

www.aging-us.com 
8685 
AGING 
 
 
Supplementary Figure 4. Krill oil stimulates transcriptome. Represents the trajectories of all the modules generated by WGCNA 
analysis. 
 

www.aging-us.com 
8686 
AGING 
 
 
Supplementary Figure 5. Krill oil improves cognition and delays senescence in C. elegans AD model. (A) The learning index was 
calculated from a negative association with isoamyl alcohol (IA) in wild type and AD animals with and without Krill oil at adult day 1 (n = 150 
individuals). (B, C) Representative images of the β-gal staining of the head region of wild type and AD animals at their adulthood of 5 days 
treated with and without Krill oil. The column scatter plot represents percentage of worms with positive senescence mark in three 
independent experiments (n = 50–100 individuals, column indicates mean, error bars, s.e.m, ***p < 0.001; one-way ANOVA followed by 
Bonferroni’s multiple comparison test). 
 
 
 

www.aging-us.com 
8687 
AGING 
Supplementary Table 
 
Supplementary Table 1. List of PCR primer sequences used in mRNA expression analysis. 
Gene 
Species 
Sequence (5′–3′) 
p21 
Human 
Forward: GACACCACTGGAGGGTGACT 
Reverse: CAGGTCCACATGGTCTTCCT 
TGF-β 
Human 
Forward: TACCTGAACCCGTGTTGCTCTC 
Reverse: GTTGCTGAGGTATCGCCAGGAA 
 
 
